The killing of Charlie Kirk has prompted a crackdown by authorities on critical commentary, with numerous people losing their jobs over their reaction to the fatal shooting of the conservative activist and free speech advocate. Those fired, suspended or censured in recent days include teachers, firefighters, journalists, politicians, a Secret Service employee, a junior strategist at Nasdaq and a worker for a prominent NFL team. Pete Hegseth, the defense secretary, has ordered staff “to find and identify military members, and any individual associated with the Pentagon, who have mocked or appeared to condone Charlie Kirk’s murder”, NBC News reported. It said several members of the military were relieved of their duties because of social media posts – and that “dozens” more, including civilian Pentagon employees, had been “called out on X”. Republicans’ anger at those disrespecting Kirk’s legacy contrasts with the mockery some of the same figures – including Kirk – directed at past victims of political violence. After Nancy Pelosi’s husband, Paul, was clubbed over the head by a hammer-wielding conspiracy theorist, Kirk told a TV audience: “If some amazing patriot out there in San Francisco or the Bay Area wants to really be a midterm hero, someone should go and bail this guy out.” Conservative figures search for Kirk critics Along with government efforts to clamp down, a number of conservative figures and groups are attempting to collate and expose examples of commentary seen as objectionable. Some Republicans have proposed deporting Kirk’s critics from the United States, suing them into penury or banning them from social media for life. Laura Loomer, a Trump loyalist, posted to X: “Prepare to have your whole future professional aspirations ruined if you are sick enough to celebrate his death. I’m going to make you wish you never opened your mouth.” Read the full story Questions remain over alleged Kirk shooter’s motivation Though the identity of the suspect in the killing of conservative activist Charlie Kirk was revealed by authorities on Friday, questions surrounding his motivations have exacerbated intense US political debate in the aftermath of the shooting. In absence of a clear motive for the slaying, reports have tried to piece together information about Robinson and his background. Read the full story Staffer at Mexico’s ruling party resigns after TV comments about Kirk A congressional staffer from Mexico’s ruling party has resigned after being called out online for comments he made on a major Mexican television news program. Salvador Ramírez told a roundtable political analysis program that Kirk was “given a spoonful of his own chocolate” because of his promotion of the use of weapons. Read the full story Pentagon eying Louisiana to deploy national guard, leaked plans show The Trump administration has drafted a proposal to deploy 1,000 Louisiana national guard troops to conduct law enforcement operations in the state’s urban centers, the Washington Post reported Saturday, citing military planning documents it had obtained. Democratic leaders have said that the massive deployments are more a show of power by Trump rather than a serious effort to fight crime. Read the full story FBI director ridiculed by far right for clumsy response to Kirk killing FBI director Kash Patel has been criticised heavily both for his perceived incompetent stewardship of the bureau in investigating the Kirk killing and his invocation of Viking lore. After announcing the arrest of a suspect, an emotional Patel said: “Lastly, to my friend Charlie Kirk, rest now, brother. We have the watch, and I’ll see you in Valhalla.” One poster on a far-right channel on Telegram: “Hindu FBI Director tells assassinated Christian that he will see him in Valhalla … OK then.” Read the full story What else happened today: Zohran Mamdani said he would order New York police to arrest Benjamin Netanyahu in the event that the Israeli prime minister ever traveled there, if the mayoral candidate wins the election. Elon Musk has called for a “dissolution of parliament” and a “change of government” in the UK while addressing a crowd attending a “unite the kingdom” rally in London, organised by a far-right activist. Catching up? Here’s what happened on 12 September 2025.